feat(docs): rest documentation added (#218)
KaotoIO/kaoto.io: content/docs/rest/_index.md

---
title: "REST DSL"
description: "Build REST APIs with Apache Camel using different approaches in Kaoto"
date: 2026-03-31
weight: 5
---

## Overview

The REST DSL (Domain Specific Language) in Apache Camel provides a powerful way to define REST APIs. Kaoto offers multiple approaches to work with REST DSL, each suited for different workflows and preferences.

This guide demonstrates three distinct approaches to building REST APIs with Kaoto:

> 1. **[Code-First Approach](01_code_first/)** - Reference OpenAPI specifications directly in YAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **[Code-First Approach](01_code_first/)** - Define REST endpoints directly in the YAML or XML source code
```

Author: resolved

---
title: "REST DSL"
description: "Build REST APIs with Apache Camel using different approaches in Kaoto"
date: 2026-03-31
weight: 5
---

## Overview

The REST DSL (Domain Specific Language) in Apache Camel provides a powerful way to define REST APIs. Kaoto offers multiple approaches to work with REST DSL, each suited for different workflows and preferences.

This guide demonstrates three distinct approaches to building REST APIs with Kaoto:

1. **[Code-First Approach](01_code_first/)** - Reference OpenAPI specifications directly in YAML
2. **[Designer-First Approach](02_designer_first/)** - Import OpenAPI specs using the REST Import Wizard
3. **[Extending with REST Editor](03_rest_editor/)** - Add new endpoints using the visual REST Editor

> Each approach builds a REST API that fetches books from Project Gutenberg via RapidAPI and generates AI-powered summaries using OpenAI.

Author: resolved
